- [Instructor] We've covered a lot of information,
and unfortunately there was no way
to get to all of the features and capabilities in WebLogic.
Let's consider some pros and cons at a high level
for a moment.
What are the primary advantages of using WebLogic?
As we've mentioned previously, WebLogic is fully compatible
with the Java Standard Edition six and seven.
It is a certified application container
for Java Standard Edition eight.
If you remember in our conversations about Tomcat,
Apache Tomcat is not a certified Java EE server,
so that means that we have to add
a lot of extra dependencies to get Java EE apps to run,
like what we've done here in WebLogic, it wasn't necessary.
WebLogic has expansive capabilities
for creating and managing servers and deploying de clusters.
By the way, there was a good deal I didn't cover here,
so take the time if you can and dig a little deeper.
WebLogic provides out of the box full set
of JDBC drivers that are both XA and non XA compliant
as well as capabilities for managing
and creating data sources for your applications.
WebLogic provides a number of customizable security features
that we didn't cover.
You can actually secure apps and control access
to various URLs in the application through WebLogic.
If that is something you need to do,
we really only covered core features
and I challenge you to take time
to dig into these other security capabilities.
WebLogic additionally offers ability to set up,
create, and maintain JMS queues and topics.
It provides a fully implemented messaging capability
instead of setting up an outside message queue facility
like Apache MQ or many other various queues.
WebLogic as well offers a scripting language
based on Python and the syntax is called WLSL,
or WebLogic scripting language.
WLSL allows you to do everything
that you can do via the administrative console.
If you want to use Puppet or Chef
to script your installations,
you have a great tool to use with WLSL.
You can additionally create templates of your installations,
which are compressed down to JAR files,
these make them great for transporting them
or moving them around, capturing all of your configurations
for easily setting up one or more WebLogic instances,
manage servers, domains, et cetera.
Again, one of those things that was out of scope
for the discussion of this chapter.
WebLogic also contains a great deal of monitoring
and logging facilities.
You can as well create a customizable monitoring solution
for tracking certain detailed aspects
of various resources deployed, like apps, drivers,
JMS messages, queues, topics, managed servers, and clusters.
There's a lot of advantages, but what's the disadvantage?
Probably the number one disadvantage to WebLogic
is the licensing structure.
Oracle products in general are very expensive,
and that is no different with WebLogic.
If you want to know more, you can follow the link provided.
Java Standard Edition 10 18.3 was released in March, 2018.
We're currently at Java Standard Edition 11
as of this video, which was released in September, 2018.
And Java Standard Edition 12 will be released in March.
WebLogic is not compatible with even version nine yet,
or above, and the only version they are compatible with
is version eight.
That can be a show stopper for some.
If your environment requires strict upgrades
for security and vulnerability issues,
you may be left with trying to get WebLogic 12C
to work with incompatible versions of Java.
It's not impossible, but it certainly won't be fun
resolving all those class not found
and class incompatibility issues.
Something to think about and research
with your organization.
Not as huge an issue as versioning,
but because of licensing constraints with Oracle,
you must use the Oracle JDKs.
And lastly, WebLogic is more complex to set up.
And I certainly recommend that your system admin
is prepared for the requirements.
So WebLogic provides a lot of powerful features
and maybe it's the right fit for your organization.
Maybe your organization requires this
due to governmental constraints to use
only certain specified and approved application containers.
I have certainly encountered that
working with the military in past careers.
Maybe you have the licensing requirements
or architectural requirements, and so this makes sense
as your only choice.
But if you are a smaller organization,
you might want to consider other open source solutions.